Virtual Apparel Try-On

This project is a way for users to simulate how clothing articles would fit a generic virtual ‘mannequin’ with body dimensions specified to match the user’s. During the pandemic we have irreversibly(?) shifted away from in-store shopping practices, the traditional medium in which someone would find products, and try them on to confirm they are happy with a piece of clothing before purchase. However, without a consistent platform mirroring this experience for online shopping, consumers are forced to either make multiple separate orders attempting to purchase the proper size, or to order multiple sizes and return the ones they elect not to keep. Streamlining this process helps save costs for both users and vendors when orders are returned from an online store due to them not fitting in a satisfactory way to the user. It is furthermore a more analogous method for the user than the traditional manner of labelling product photography with the photographed (human) model’s dimensions and corresponding clothing size.

This software is tailored to the experience of an online clothing shopper. Specifically, while this product has broad applications to any end-user on an online apparel shop, it is particularly relevant to people whose ‘fit’ of their selected clothing articles matters a lot to them. This is particularly young people between the ages of teenagers to young adults. However, as stated, this is not an exclusive designation.

The product works by representing a generic 3D-model ‘mannequin’ in a virtual environment (3D space). The user can then select a clothing item from the online store’s catalogue to have their mannequin ‘try on.’ The software will ask the user to provide specific dimensions in order to scale the model accordingly. They can provide as few dimensions as their body height and waist size, or as many as thespecific dimensions of their torso, lower body, etc. From here, the software will appropriately render the clothing fitting proportionately to the dimensions input by the user. 

For the scope of this semester, the implementation could be limited to just one example representing a specific category of clothing article. This, for instance, could be one t-shirt, one long sleeve, one crewneck, one jacket, one pair of pants, etc. The user’s ability to interact with the 3D space can also be constrained, such that maybe they can only zoom, rather than other features like panning or rotating. In this case, the 3D modelling could be ‘faked’ effectively using some linear transformations on the selected images.

